CORS 3.1 update (#17345)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/security/cors.md

* `http://example.com/foo.html` &ndash; Different scheme
* `https://example.com:9000/foo.html` &ndash; Different port

## CORS with named policy and middleware

> CORS Middleware handles cross-origin requests. The following code applies CORS policies to all the apps endpoints with the specified origin:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CORS Middleware handles cross-origin requests. The following code applies CORS policies to all the app's endpoints with the specified origin:
```

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/Startup.cs?name=snippet2)]

For more information, see [CORS policy options](#cpo) in this document.

The <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Cors.Infrastructure.CorsPolicyBuilder> method can chain methods, as shown in the following code:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/Startup2.cs?name=snippet)]

Note: The specified URL must **not** contain a trailing slash (`/`). If the URL terminates with `/`, the comparison returns `false` and no header is returned.

<a name="ecors"></a>

## Enable Cors with endpoint routing

Enabling CORS on a per-endpoint basis using `RequireCors` currently does ***not*** support [automatic pre-flight requests](#apf). For more information, see [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/issues/18665) and [Test CORS with endpoint routing and [HttpOptions]](#tcer).

With endpoint routing, CORS can be enabled on a per-endpoint basis using the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.CorsEndpointConventionBuilderExtensions.RequireCors*> set of extension methods:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/StartupEndPt.cs?name=snippet)]

In the preceding code:

> * `app.UseCors` enables the CORS middleware but doesn't add a policy. `app.UseCors` by itself, without a policy, does ***not*** allow cross-origin requests.

Reviewer 2: This might need a little more clarification. For example, if we use `AddDefaultPolicy` in the `AddCors` setup, `UseCors()` enables CORS for that policy, as the default.

* The endpoints `/echo` and API controller endpoints allow cross-origin requests for the specified policy.
* The endpoints `/echo2` and Razor Pages endpoints do ***not*** allow cross-origin requests unless the [[EnableCors]](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Cors.EnableCorsAttribute) attribute is applied.

See [Test CORS with endpoint routing and [HttpOptions]](#tcer) for instructions on testing code similar to the preceding.

## Enable CORS with attributes

Enabling CORS with the [[EnableCors]](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Cors.EnableCorsAttribute) attribute to only those endpoints that require CORS is preferred to enabling CORS globally.

The [[EnableCors]](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Cors.EnableCorsAttribute) attribute provides an alternative to applying CORS globally. The `[EnableCors]` attribute enables CORS for selected end points, rather than all end points:

* `[EnableCors]` specifies the default policy.
* `[EnableCors("{Policy String}")]` specifies a specific a policy.

The `[EnableCors]` attribute can be applied to:

* Razor Page `PageModel`
* Controller
* Controller action method

> Different policies can be applied to controller, page-model, or action with the  `[EnableCors]` attribute. When the `[EnableCors]` attribute is applied to a controllers, page-model, or action method, and CORS is enabled in middleware, ***both*** policies are applied. ***We recommend against combining policies. Use the*** `[EnableCors]` ***attribute or middleware, not both in the same app.***

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different policies can be applied to controllers, page models, or action methods with the `[EnableCors]` attribute. When the `[EnableCors]` attribute is applied to a controller, page model, or action method, and CORS is enabled in middleware, ***both*** policies are applied. ***We recommend against combining policies. Use the*** `[EnableCors]` ***attribute or middleware, not both in the same app.***
```

The following code applies a different policy to each method:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/Controllers/WidgetController.cs?name=snippet&highlight=6,14)]

The following code creates a CORS default policy and a policy named `"AnotherPolicy"`:

> [!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/Startup3.cs?name=snippet&highlight=12-28,45)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/Startup3.cs?name=snippet&highlight=12-28,44)]
```

See [Test CORS](#testc) for instructions on testing code similar to the preceding code.

### Disable CORS

> The [[DisableCors]](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Cors.DisableCorsAttribute) attribute does ***not***  disables CORS when a CORS policy has been enabled in middleware. For example, either of the following calls in `Startup.Configure` sets a CORS policy in middleware:

Reviewer 2: `[DisableCors]` _does_ override the middleware setup when using endpoint routing, but not when using whatever-the-other-routing-was-called.

Author: I added a H2 near the top that lists the 3 approaches with links to each section:

There are three ways to enable CORS:

    In middleware using a named policy or default policy.
    Using endpoint routing.
    With the [EnableCors] attribute.

Testing the deployed app, From https://cors1.azurewebsites.net/ which calls 
Request URL: https://cors3.azurewebsites.net/api/values/GetValues2
`[DisableCors]` fails. The cors3 server uses:

` endpoints.MapControllers().RequireCors(MyPolicy);`

Testing from https://cors3.azurewebsites.net/ which calls
Request URL: https://cors1.azurewebsites.net/api/values/GetValues2
correctly blocks CORS with the following error:
Access to fetch at 'https://cors1.azurewebsites.net/api/values/GetValues2' from origin 'https://cors3.azurewebsites.net' has been blocked by CORS policy:

Cors1 deployment uses StartupTest

```
 public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
        {
            services.AddCors(options =>
            {
                options.AddDefaultPolicy(
                    builder =>

...

app.UseCors();

            app.UseAuthorization();
            app.UseAuthorization();

            app.UseEndpoints(endpoints =>
            {
                endpoints.MapControllers();
                endpoints.MapRazorPages();
            });
```

Author: @serpent5  can you review the public link and this change.

Author: @serpent5  hold off, I'm still working on your next comment. It seems if you're going to use `[EnableCors]`, it doesn't make sense with the default policy. If you defined a default policy, you still must call  `app.UseCors()` - which enables the default policy for all endpoints.

So I think I need to change the sample to define "MyPolicy", then call  `app.UseCors()` 
That will take me some time to do that and test everything.

Reviewer 2: Right, so we were talking about slightly different things. To me, middleware meant something applied with either a default or named policy using `AddCors`/`UseCors`. That's option 1 on your list above. With that, `[DisableCors]` _does_ work. With option 2, using `RequireCors`, `[DisableCors]` does _not_ work, as you said.

It gets a bit weird if you do something like this:

```csharp
[EnableCors("Policy")]
[DisableCors]
public IActionResult SomeAction()
```

In this case, `[DisableCors]` wins, assuming just those two attributes. However, consider this:

```csharp
[DisableCors]
[EnableCors("Policy")]
public IActionResult SomeAction()
```

In this case, `EnableCors("Policy")` wins. This is just because the endpoint metadata is ordered, and of course it's a weird example, but I found it interesting anyway.

So, it looks like `[EnableCors(...)]` and `[DisableCors]` have no effect if `RequireCors` is used. I guess that's intentional, but I find it weird.

Reviewer 2: > It seems if you're going to use `[EnableCors]`, it doesn't make sense with the default policy

I could see a case where you might like to set up a default policy and override it using `[EnableCors]`. You can't do that if you use `RequireCors` for setting up the default policy, but you could do something like this:

```csharp
services.AddCors(options =>
{
    options.AddDefaultPolicy(builder => builder.WithOrigins("http://origin/one"));
    options.AddPolicy("SomethingElse", builder => builder.WithOrigins("http://origin/two"));
});

---

[EnableCors("SomethingElse")]
public IActionResult SomeAction()
```

With just that setup, all endpoints use the default, except for the `SomeAction` endpoint.

* `app.UseCors("MyPolicy");`
* `endpoints.MapControllers().RequireCors("MyPolicy");`

The following code doesn't set a CORS policy in middleware:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/Startup3.cs?name=snippet2)]

Using the preceding code, the following code disables CORS in for the `GetValues2` method:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/Controllers/ValuesController.cs?name=snippet&highlight=1,23)]

> See [Test CORS](#testc) for instructions on testing the preceding code.

Reviewer 2: I think this section should be ordered something like this:

1. Explain what `[DisableCors]` does.
2. Show the second snippet, explaining how `[DisableCors]` on the action overrides `[EnableCors]` on the controller.
3. Discuss how `[DisableCors]` works with `UseCors`. As I've called out above, this behaviour differs between endpoint routing and "not" endpoint routing.

I don't think there's any value in the first snippet, especially as it's still possible to set a default policy using the `AddCors` call.

Author: @serpent5 I think I addressed this. Can you review the public link?

Using the [[EnableCors]](#attr) attribute with a named policy provides the finest control in limiting endpoints that support CORS.

Each approach is detailed in the following sections.

<a name="np"></a>

## CORS with named policy and middleware

CORS Middleware handles cross-origin requests. The following code applies a CORS policy to all the app's endpoints with the specified origins:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/Startup.cs?name=snippet&highlight=3,9,31)]

The preceding code:

* Sets the policy name to `_myAllowSpecificOrigins`. The policy name is arbitrary.
* Calls the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.CorsMiddlewareExtensions.UseCors*> extension method and specifies the  `_myAllowSpecificOrigins` CORS policy. `UseCors` adds the CORS middleware.
* Calls <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.CorsServiceCollectionExtensions.AddCors*> with a [lambda expression](/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/statements-expressions-operators/lambda-expressions). The lambda takes a <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Cors.Infrastructure.CorsPolicyBuilder> object. [Configuration options](#cors-policy-options), such as `WithOrigins`, are described later in this article.

> * Enables the `_myAllowSpecificOrigins` CORS policy for all controller endpoints. See [endpoint routing](#ecors) to limit CORS to specific endpoints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Enables the `_myAllowSpecificOrigins` CORS policy for all controller endpoints. See [endpoint routing](#ecors) to apply a CORS policy to specific endpoints.
```

With endpoint routing, CORS can be enabled on a per-endpoint basis using the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Builder.CorsEndpointConventionBuilderExtensions.RequireCors*> set of extension methods:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/StartupEndPt.cs?name=snippet2&highlight=3,7-15,32,41,44)]

In the preceding code:

> * `app.UseCors` enables the CORS middleware with the default policy. Because no default policy has be specified, `app.UseCors()` doesn't enable CORS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `app.UseCors` enables the CORS middleware. Because a default policy hasn't been configured, `app.UseCors()` alone doesn't enable CORS.
```

* The `/echo` and controller endpoints allow cross-origin requests using the specified policy.
* The `/echo2` and Razor Pages endpoints do ***not*** allow cross-origin requests because no default policy was specified.

> The [[DisableCors]](#dc) attribute does ***not***  disable CORS that has been enabled by endpoint routing.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure how to improve this, but I don't know if it's clear that "endpoint routing" here means the call to `RequireCors`.

Author: The [[DisableCors]](#dc) attribute does ***not***  disable CORS that has been enabled by endpoint routing with `RequireCors`.

See [Test CORS with endpoint routing and [HttpOptions]](#tcer) for instructions on testing code similar to the preceding.

<a name="attr"></a>

## Enable CORS with attributes

> Enabling CORS with the [[EnableCors]](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Cors.EnableCorsAttribute) attribute and a named policy to only those endpoints that require CORS is provides the finest control over CORS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enabling CORS with the [[EnableCors]](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Cors.EnableCorsAttribute) attribute and applying a named policy to only those endpoints that require CORS provides the finest control.
```

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/Controllers/WidgetController.cs?name=snippet&highlight=6,14)]

The following code creates two CORS policies:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/Startup3.cs?name=snippet&highlight=12-28,44)]

For the finest control of limiting CORS requests:

* Use `[EnableCors("MyPolicy")]` with a named policy.
* Don't define a default policy.
* Don't use [endpoint routing](#ecors).

> The code in the next section meets preceding list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code in the next section meets the preceding list.
```

See [Test CORS](#testc) for instructions on testing code similar to the preceding code.

<a name="dc"></a>

### Disable CORS

The [[DisableCors]](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Cors.DisableCorsAttribute) attribute does ***not***  disable CORS that has been enabled by [endpoint routing](#ecors).

The following code defines the CORS policy `"MyPolicy"`:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/StartupTestMyPolicy.cs?name=snippet)]

> The following code disables CORS in for the `GetValues2` method:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code disables CORS for the `GetValues2` action:
```

The following is an example response similar to the preflight request made from the **[Put test]** button in the [Test CORS](#testc) section of this document.

```
General:
Request URL: https://cors3.azurewebsites.net/api/values/5
Request Method: OPTIONS
Status Code: 204 No Content

Response Headers:
Access-Control-Allow-Methods: PUT,DELETE,GET
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: https://cors1.azurewebsites.net
Server: Microsoft-IIS/10.0
Set-Cookie: ARRAffinity=8f8...8;Path=/;HttpOnly;Domain=cors1.azurewebsites.net
Vary: Origin

Request Headers:
Accept: */*
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.9
Access-Control-Request-Method: PUT
Connection: keep-alive
Host: cors3.azurewebsites.net
Origin: https://cors1.azurewebsites.net
Referer: https://cors1.azurewebsites.net/
Sec-Fetch-Dest: empty
Sec-Fetch-Mode: cors
Sec-Fetch-Site: cross-site
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0
```

> The pre-flight request uses the [HTTP OPTIONS](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/OPTIONS) method. It may includes the following headers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pre-flight request uses the [HTTP OPTIONS](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/OPTIONS) method. It may include the following headers:
```

* [Access-Control-Request-Method](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Request-Method): The HTTP method that will be used for the actual request.
* [Access-Control-Request-Headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Headers): A list of request headers that the app sets on the actual request. As stated earlier, this doesn't include headers that the browser sets, such as `User-Agent`.
* [Access-Control-Allow-Methods](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Methods)

> If the preflight request is denied, the app returns a `200 OK` response but doesn't send the CORS headers back. Therefore, the browser doesn't attempt the cross-origin request. For an example of denied preflight request, see the [Test CORS](#testc) section of this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the preflight request is denied, the app returns a `200 OK` response but doesn't send the CORS headers back. Therefore, the browser doesn't attempt the cross-origin request. For an example of a denied preflight request, see the [Test CORS](#testc) section of this document.
```

* Chromium based: Access to fetch at 'https://cors1.azurewebsites.net/api/TodoItems1/MyDelete2/5' from origin 'https://cors3.azurewebsites.net' has been blocked by CORS policy: Response to preflight request doesn't pass access control check: No 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' header is present on the requested resource. If an opaque response serves your needs, set the request's mode to 'no-cors' to fetch the resource with CORS disabled.

To allow specific headers, call <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Cors.Infrastructure.CorsPolicyBuilder.WithHeaders*>:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/StartupAllowSubdomain.cs?name=snippet2)]

To allow all [author request headers](https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/#author-request-headers), call <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Cors.Infrastructure.CorsPolicyBuilder.AllowAnyHeader*>:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/StartupAllowSubdomain.cs?name=snippet3)]

Browsers aren't consistent in how they set `Access-Control-Request-Headers`. If either:

* Headers are set to anything other than `"*"`
* <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Cors.Infrastructure.CorsPolicy.AllowAnyHeader*> is called:

>   Include at least `Accept`, `Content-Type`, and `Origin`, plus any custom headers that you want to support.

Reviewer 2: Something is broken here. It might just be that "Include at least..." should sit outside of the bullets.

If the preflight request is denied, the app returns a *200 OK* response but doesn't send the CORS headers back. Therefore, the browser doesn't attempt the cross-origin request.

-->

<a name="apf"></a>

### Automatic preflight request code

When the CORS policy is applied either:

> * Globally by calling  `app.UseCors("The Policy")` in `Configure`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Globally by calling `app.UseCors("The Policy")` in `Startup.Configure`.
```

* Using the `[EnableCors]` attribute.

ASP.NET Core responds to the preflight OPTIONS request.

> Enabling CORS on a per-endpoint basis using `RequireCors` currently does ***not*** support automatic pre-flight requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enabling CORS on a per-endpoint basis using `RequireCors` currently does ***not*** support automatic preflight requests.
```

The [Test CORS](#testc) section of this document demonstrates this behavior.

<a name="pro"></a>

### [HttpOptions] attribute for preflight requests

> When CORS is enabled with the appropriate policy, ASP.NET Core generally automatically responds to CORS preflight requests. In some cases, code may not be generated to respond to preflight requests, for example, using [CORS with endpoint routing](#ecors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When CORS is enabled with the appropriate policy, ASP.NET Core generally automatically responds to CORS preflight requests. In some cases, code may not be generated to respond to preflight requests. For example, using [CORS with endpoint routing](#ecors).
```

> When CORS is enabled with the appropriate policy, ASP.NET Core generally automatically responds to CORS preflight requests. In some cases, code may not be generated to respond to preflight requests. For example, using [CORS with endpoint routing](#ecors).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When CORS is enabled with the appropriate policy, ASP.NET Core generally responds to CORS preflight requests automatically. In some scenarios, this may not be the case. For example, using [CORS with endpoint routing](#ecors).
```

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/Controllers/TodoItems2Controller.cs?name=snippet&highlight=5-17)]

See [Test CORS with endpoint routing and [HttpOptions]](#tcer) for instructions on testing the preceding code.

### Set the preflight expiration time

The `Access-Control-Max-Age` header specifies how long the response to the preflight request can be cached. To set this header, call <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Cors.Infrastructure.CorsPolicyBuilder.SetPreflightMaxAge*>:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/StartupAllowSubdomain.cs?name=snippet7)]
<a name="how-cors"></a>

## How CORS works

This section describes what happens in a [CORS](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) request at the level of the HTTP messages.

* CORS is **not** a security feature. CORS is a W3C standard that allows a server to relax the same-origin policy.
  * For example, a malicious actor could use [Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)](xref:security/cross-site-scripting) against your site and execute a cross-site request to their CORS enabled site to steal information.

> * An API is not safer by allowing CORS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An API isn't safer by allowing CORS.
```

    * [Fiddler](https://www.telerik.com/fiddler)
    * [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/)
    * [.NET HttpClient](/dotnet/csharp/tutorials/console-webapiclient)
    * A web browser by entering the URL in the address bar.
* It's a way for a server to allow browsers to execute a cross-origin [XHR](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/XMLHttpRequest) or [Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) request that otherwise would be forbidden.
  * Browsers without CORS can't do cross-origin requests. Before CORS, [JSONP](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_json_jsonp.asp) was used to circumvent this restriction. JSONP doesn't use XHR, it uses the `<script>` tag to receive the response. Scripts are allowed to be loaded cross-origin.

The [CORS specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/) introduced several new HTTP headers that enable cross-origin requests. If a browser supports CORS, it sets these headers automatically for cross-origin requests. Custom JavaScript code isn't required to enable CORS.

> The  [PUT test button](https://cors3.azurewebsites.net/test) on the deployed [sample](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/master/aspnetcore/security/cors/3.1sample/WebApi)

Reviewer 2: Should there be an end to this sentance? 😄

> The following is an example of a cross-origin request from the [Values](https://cors3.azurewebsites.net/) test button to `https://cors1.azurewebsites.net/api/values` . The `Origin` header:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example of a cross-origin request from the [Values](https://cors3.azurewebsites.net/) test button to `https://cors1.azurewebsites.net/api/values`. The `Origin` header:
```

* Provides the domain of the site that's making the request.
* Is required and must be different from the host.

**General headers**

```
Request URL: https://cors1.azurewebsites.net/api/values
Request Method: GET
Status Code: 200 OK
```

**Response headers**

```
Content-Encoding: gzip
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=utf-8
Server: Microsoft-IIS/10.0
Set-Cookie: ARRAffinity=8f...;Path=/;HttpOnly;Domain=cors1.azurewebsites.net
Transfer-Encoding: chunked
Vary: Accept-Encoding
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
```

**Request headers**

```
Accept: */*
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.9
Connection: keep-alive
Host: cors1.azurewebsites.net
Origin: https://cors3.azurewebsites.net
Referer: https://cors3.azurewebsites.net/
Sec-Fetch-Dest: empty
Sec-Fetch-Mode: cors
Sec-Fetch-Site: cross-site
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 ...
```

> In `OPTIONS` requests, the server sets the **Response headers** `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: {allowed origin}` header in the response. For example, the deployed [sample](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/master/aspnetcore/security/cors/3.1sample/WebApi), [Delete [EnableCors]](https://cors1.azurewebsites.net/test?number=2) button `OPTIONS` request contains the following  headers:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In `OPTIONS` requests, the server sets the **Response headers** `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: {allowed origin}` header in the response. For example, the deployed [sample](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/master/aspnetcore/security/cors/3.1sample/WebApi)'s [Delete [EnableCors]](https://cors1.azurewebsites.net/test?number=2) button's `OPTIONS` request contains the following headers:
```

**General headers**

```
Request URL: https://cors3.azurewebsites.net/api/TodoItems2/MyDelete2/5
Request Method: OPTIONS
Status Code: 204 No Content
```

**Response headers**

```
Access-Control-Allow-Headers: Content-Type,x-custom-header
Access-Control-Allow-Methods: PUT,DELETE,GET,OPTIONS
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: https://cors1.azurewebsites.net
Server: Microsoft-IIS/10.0
Set-Cookie: ARRAffinity=8f...;Path=/;HttpOnly;Domain=cors3.azurewebsites.net
Vary: Origin
X-Powered-By: ASP.NET
```

**Request headers**

```
Accept: */*
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.9
Access-Control-Request-Headers: content-type
Access-Control-Request-Method: DELETE
Connection: keep-alive
Host: cors3.azurewebsites.net
Origin: https://cors1.azurewebsites.net
Referer: https://cors1.azurewebsites.net/test?number=2
Sec-Fetch-Dest: empty
Sec-Fetch-Mode: cors
Sec-Fetch-Site: cross-site
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0
```

> In the preceding **Response headers**, the server sets the [Access-Control-Allow-Origin](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Origin): `https://cors1.azurewebsites.net` header in the response. The `https://cors1.azurewebsites.net` value of this header matches the Origin header from the request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding **Response headers**, the server sets the [Access-Control-Allow-Origin](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Origin): `https://cors1.azurewebsites.net` header in the response. The `https://cors1.azurewebsites.net` value of this header matches the `Origin` header from the request.
```

> In the preceding **Response headers**, the server sets the [Access-Control-Allow-Origin](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Origin): `https://cors1.azurewebsites.net` header in the response. The `https://cors1.azurewebsites.net` value of this header matches the `Origin` header from the request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the preceding **Response headers**, the server sets the [Access-Control-Allow-Origin](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Origin) header in the response. The `https://cors1.azurewebsites.net` value of this header matches the `Origin` header from the request.
```

If <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Cors.Infrastructure.CorsPolicyBuilder.AllowAnyOrigin*> is called, the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *`, the wildcard value, is returned. `AllowAnyOrigin` allows any origin.

If the response doesn't include the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header, the cross-origin request fails. Specifically, the browser disallows the request. Even if the server returns a successful response, the browser doesn't make the response available to the client app.

<a name="options"></a>

### Display OPTIONS requests

> By default, the Chrome and Edge browsers don't show OPTIONS requests on the network tab of the F12 tools. To display OPTIONS requests, in Chrome or Edge browser:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the Chrome and Edge browsers don't show OPTIONS requests on the network tab of the F12 tools. To display OPTIONS requests in these browsers:
```

needs to be installed and configured for the app.

<a name="testc"></a>

## Test CORS

The [sample download](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/master/aspnetcore/security/cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebApi) has code to test CORS. See [how to download](xref:index#how-to-download-a-sample). The sample is an API project with Razor Pages added:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/StartupTest.cs?name=snippet2)]

  > [!WARNING]
  > `WithOrigins("https://localhost:<port>");` should only be used for testing a sample app similar to the [download sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/live/aspnetcore/security/cors/3.1sample/Cors).

The following `ValuesController` provides the endpoints for testing:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/Controllers/ValuesController.cs?name=snippet)]

[MyDisplayRouteInfo](https://github.com/Rick-Anderson/RouteInfo/blob/master/Microsoft.Docs.Samples.RouteInfo/ControllerContextExtensions.cs) is provided by the [Rick.Docs.Samples.RouteInfo](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Rick.Docs.Samples.RouteInfo) NuGet package and displays route information.

> Test the preceding sample code by one of the following approaches:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Test the preceding sample code by using one of the following approaches:
```

> * Running the deployed sample app at [https://cors3.azurewebsites.net/](https://cors3.azurewebsites.net/). There is no need to download the sample.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Use the deployed sample app at [https://cors3.azurewebsites.net/](https://cors3.azurewebsites.net/). There is no need to download the sample.
```

> * Running the sample from `dotnet run` using the default `https://localhost:5001` localhost port.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Run the sample with `dotnet run` using the default URL of `https://localhost:5001`.
```

> * Running the sample from Visual Studio with the port set to 44398, `https://localhost:44398`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Run the sample from Visual Studio with the port set to 44398 for a URL of `https://localhost:44398`.
```

Using a browser with the F12 tools:

* Select the **Values** button and review the headers in the **Network** tab.
* Select the **PUT test** button. See [Display OPTIONS requests](#options) for instructions on displaying the OPTIONS request. The **PUT test** creates two requests, an OPTIONS preflight request and the PUT request.
* Select the **`GetValues2 [DisableCors]`** button to trigger a failed CORS request. As mentioned in the document, the response returns 200 success, but the CORS request is not made. Select the **Console** tab to see the CORS error. Depending on the browser, an error similar to the following is displayed:

     Access to fetch at `'https://cors1.azurewebsites.net/api/values/GetValues2'` from origin `'https://cors3.azurewebsites.net'` has been blocked by CORS policy: No 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' header is present on the requested resource. If an opaque response serves your needs, set the request's mode to 'no-cors' to fetch the resource with CORS disabled.
     

> CORS-enabled endpoints can be tested with a tool, such as [curl](https://curl.haxx.se/), [Fiddler](https://www.telerik.com/fiddler) or [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/). When using a tool, the origin of the request specified by the `Origin` header must differ from the host receiving the request. If the request isn't *cross-origin* based on the value of the `Origin` header:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CORS-enabled endpoints can be tested with a tool, such as [curl](https://curl.haxx.se/), [Fiddler](https://www.telerik.com/fiddler), or [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/). When using a tool, the origin of the request specified by the `Origin` header must differ from the host receiving the request. If the request isn't *cross-origin* based on the value of the `Origin` header:
```

* There's no need for CORS Middleware to process the request.
* CORS headers aren't returned in the response.

The following command uses `curl` to issue an OPTIONS request with information:

> ```cmd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

curl -X OPTIONS https://cors3.azurewebsites.net/api/TodoItems2/5 -i
```

<!--
curl come with Git. Add to path variable
C:\Program Files\Git\mingw64\bin\
-->

<a name="tcer"></a>

### Test CORS with endpoint routing and [HttpOptions]

> Enabling CORS on a per-endpoint basis using `RequireCors` currently does ***not*** support [automatic pre-flight requests](#apf). Consider the following code which uses [endpoint routing to enable CORS](#ecors):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enabling CORS on a per-endpoint basis using `RequireCors` currently does ***not*** support [automatic preflight requests](#apf). Consider the following code which uses [endpoint routing to enable CORS](#ecors):
```

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/StartupEndPointBugTest.cs?name=snippet2)]

The following `TodoItems1Controller` provides endpoints for testing:

[!code-csharp[](cors/3.1sample/Cors/WebAPI/Controllers/TodoItems1Controller.cs?name=snippet2)]

Test the preceding code from the [test page](https://cors1.azurewebsites.net/test?number=1) of the deployed [sample](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/master/aspnetcore/security/cors/3.1sample/WebApi).

The **Delete [EnableCors]** and **GET [EnableCors]** buttons succeed, because the endpoints have `[EnableCors]` and respond to preflight requests. The other endpoints fails. The **GET** button fails, because the [JavaScript](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/master/aspnetcore/security/cors/3.1sample/WebApi/wwwroot/js/MyJS.js) is sending:

> ```JavaScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript
```

> The **Delete [EnableCors]** and **GET [EnableCors]** buttons succeed, because the endpoints have `[EnableCors]` and respond to preflight requests. The other endpoints fails. The **GET** button fails, because the [JavaScript](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/master/aspnetcore/security/cors/3.1sample/WebApi/wwwroot/js/MyJS.js) is sending:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Delete [EnableCors]** and **GET [EnableCors]** buttons succeed, because the endpoints have `[EnableCors]` and respond to preflight requests. The other endpoints fails. The **GET** button fails, because the [JavaScript](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/master/aspnetcore/security/cors/3.1sample/WebApi/wwwroot/js/MyJS.js) sends:
```

* Controller
* Controller action method

> You can apply different policies to controller/page-model/action with the  `[EnableCors]` attribute. When the `[EnableCors]` attribute is applied to a controllers/page-model/action method, and CORS is enabled in middleware, ***both*** policies are applied. We recommend ***not*** combining policies. Use the `[EnableCors]` attribute or middleware, ***not both*** in the same app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can apply different policies to controller/page-model/action with the  `[EnableCors]` attribute. When the `[EnableCors]` attribute is applied to a controllers/page model/action method, and CORS is enabled in middleware, ***both*** policies are applied. We recommend ***not*** combining policies. Use the `[EnableCors]` attribute or middleware, ***not both*** in the same app.
```
